# Dimensionality-Reduction-and-Clustering-of-Brain-Tumor-MRI-Scans
This project provides a comprehensive study of the effectiveness of various clustering algorithms for the segregation of brain tumor MRI images. The study aims to identify the most suitable clustering algorithm for accurately identifying and classifying different slice-section images of brain tumors: longitudnal, transversal and frontal. We have compared the performance of several clustering algorithms, including K-means, Agglomerative clustering, DBSCAN, and BIRCH clustering, using a dataset of brain tumor MRI images. The results of the study provides insights into the relative strengths and weaknesses of each algorithm and identify the most effective algorithm for the task. K-means was found to be the best algorithm  and was selected based on the visual analysis of the clustering results, where the separation of 3 distinct and non-overlapping clusters of the 3 slice section views, gave a satisfactory outcome for all the types of cancers. By clustering similar view images together, health professionals would be able to create representative prototypes for each type of tumor. This can be utilized to classify and diagnose new MRI scans more efficiently, potentially aiding in accurate and quicker tumor identification. It would also be beneficial in treatment strategy planning. By understanding the spatial distribution of tumor slices, doctors would be able to visualize the extent of the tumor, its relationship with surrounding structures and determine the best approach for surgery.
